---
hide:
  - toc
---
# Plex Collectionless

**This is not needed if you're using [Smart Label Collections](#smart-label).**

Finds every item that is not in a collection unless the collection is in the exclusion list. This is a special 
collection type to help keep your library looking correct. When items in your library are in multiple collections it 
can mess up how they're displayed in your library.

For Example, if you have a `Marvel Cinematic Universe` Collection set to `Show this collection and its items` and an 
`Iron Man` Collection set to `Hide items in this collection` what happens is the show overrides the hide, and you end 
up with both the collections and the 3 Iron Man movies all displaying.

Alternatively, if you set the `Marvel Cinematic Universe` Collection to `Hide items in this collection` then movies 
without a collection like `The Incredible Hulk` will be hidden from the library view.

To combat the problem above you set all collections to `Hide items in this collection` then create a collection set to 
`Hide collection` and put every movie that you still want to display in that collection. 

With the variability of collections generated by the Kometa maintaining a collection like this becomes very difficult, 
so in order to automate it, you can use `plex_collectionless`. You just have to tell it what collections to exclude or 
what collection prefixes to exclude.

There are two attributes for `plex_collectionless`:

* `exclude`: Exclude these Collections from being considered for collectionless. 
* `exclude_prefix` Exclude Collections whose title or sort title starts with a prefix from being considered for 
collectionless. 
 
**At least one exclusion is required.**

### Example Plex Collectionless Builder(s)

```yaml
collections:
  Collectionless:
    plex_collectionless:
      exclude_prefix:
        - "!"
        - "+"
        - "~"
      exclude: 
        - Marvel Cinematic Universe
    sort_title: ~_Collectionless
    collection_order: alpha
    collection_mode: hide
```

* Both `exclude` and `exclude_prefix` can take multiple values as a List.
* This is a known issue with Plex Collection and there is a [Feature Suggestion](https://forums.plex.tv/t/collection-display-issue/305406) detailing the issue more on their 
forms.