Now we have to set up that metadata file that PMM just complained about.

This metadata file contains definitions of the actions you want PMM to take; these can be things like creating collections or playlists, adding overlays, changing things like posters, etc.  You can find lots of examples [here](https://github.com/meisnate12/Plex-Meta-Manager-Configs) and throughout the wiki.

For now we’re going to create a few collections so you can watch the process work, then you’re on your own to create whatever others you want.

First, open the metadata file [this will create the file if it doesn't already exist]:

````{tab} Linux
[type this into your terminal]
```
nano "config/Movies.yml"
```
````
````{tab} OS X
[type this into your terminal]
```
nano "config/Movies.yml"
```
````
````{tab} Windows
[type this into your terminal]
```
notepad "config\Movies.yml"
```
````

In this file, add the following, exactly as it is shown here:

```yaml
templates:
  Actor:
    actor: tmdb
    tmdb_person: <<person>>
    tmdb_actor_details: <<person>>
    sort_title: +_<<collection_name>>
    sync_mode: sync
    collection_order: release
    collection_mode: hide
collections:
  Bill Murray:
    template: {name:  Actor, person: 1532}
  Best of the 1980s:
    tmdb_discover:
      primary_release_date.gte: 01/01/1980
      primary_release_date.lte: 12/31/1989
      with_original_language: en
      sort_by: popularity.desc
      limit: 100
    summary: A collection of the Top Content of the 1980s
  Vulture’s 101 Best Movie Endings:
    letterboxd_list: https://letterboxd.com/brianformo/list/vultures-101-best-movie-endings/
```

I chose a letterboxd list for the last one since trakt requires authentication and again, I didn’t want to complicate this walkthrough.

This is going to create three collections.  One contains movies that feature Bill Murray.  One is up to 100 movies that came out in the 1980s sorted by popularity.  The last are movies that appear on a list of good endings according to Vulture.

The first one is based on a template to illustrate that concept.  If you wanted to create a collection for another actor you just have to copy and edit those two lines [the ID comes from TMDb].  All the other config details come from the template.

